### Brute Force

```cpp
class solution
{
	void containsDuplicate(std::vector<int>& nums)
	{
		for(int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++)
		{
			for(int j = i + 1; j < nums.size(); i++)
			{
				if(nums[i] == nums[j])
				{
					return true;
				}
			}
		}
		return false
	}
}
```

Here we use two pointer to iterate through every index in our array of numbers. If we find that the number at pointer `i` and pointer `j` are the same, we return true, if we get through the entire array without finding any that are the same, we return false. There are no duplicates.

__Time Complexity: O(n^2)__

Worst case, we go through our array entire array (n), n times: n * n.

__Space Complexity: O(1)__

Requires no extra space.

### Sorting

```cpp
class solution
{
	void containsDuplicate(std::vector<int>& nums)
	{
		sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
		for(int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++)
		{
			if(nums[i] == nums[i - 1]) return true;
		}
		return false;
	}
}
```

Here we sort out array, therefore any duplicates will be placed next to each other, because of this we can make one pass of the array and check the two numbers next to each other, if they are the same, we return true, there are duplicates.

__Time Complexity: O(nlogn)__

We make one pass of the array, however most sorting algorithms are O(nlogn) so this is the dominant term.

__Space Complexity: O(1) or O(n)__

This depends on the sorting algorithm.

### Hash Set

```cpp
class solution
{
	void containsDuplicate(std::vector<int>& nums)
	{
		std::unordered_set<int> seen;
		for(int n : nums)
		{
			if(seen.count(n))
			{
				return true;
			}
			seen.insert(n);
		}
		return false;
	}
}
```

Here we maintain a HashSet of all the elements we have seen thus far in our array of numbers, if we come across a number which is contained inside the HashSet, then it is a duplicate and we return true.

__Time Complexity: O(n)__

We only make one pass of the array.

__Space Complexity: O(n)__

We create a HashSet which will be the same length of the input array (n).

### Hast Set Length

```cpp
class solution
{
	void containsDuplicate(std::vector<int>& nums)
	{
		return std::unordered_set<int>(nums.begin(), nums.end()).size() <
		nums.size()
	}
}
```

This is the most efficient solution, seeing that a HashSet cannot contain duplicated if we add all the elements of out numbers array to a set, any duplicates will be removed and the original size of out numbers array will be decreased.

__Time Complexity: O(n)__

We make on pass of the array.

__Space Complexity: O(n)__

We must maintain a HashSet of the same length of the input array.